In this lecture, we take a look at flu lives.
So the below process flow tries to explain how fluid might work.
So if we start here, when we create fluent whites, we need to set two settings a timeout, which is
the maximum timeout before the test will fail, and a polling frequency.
And that polling frequency instructs the fluent white to check for the elements every p seconds.
So if we set polling to 100 milliseconds, for example, the Flume light will check to see if that element
or condition has been met.
Every hundred milliseconds.
Then we would execute the test and then the browser would navigate to the URL.
The page would begin to load and the test searches for the element.
So then it checks to see if the element is found.
And if it's not found, it checks to see if the maximum time has been exceeded and if it has from element
not without exception.
But if the max time out hasn't exceeded, then it would check again every piece seconds based on what
we've set for the polling setting, and it will keep checking on that frequency until the element is
either found or the time out has exceeded.
If the element is found, then the text text execution will continue.
On this slide, we take a look at a quick code example.
So if we look at the code below.
First off, take note of line two, two, four.
So two primary parameters are set and this is with timeouts and polling every week.
Timeout has been set to 30 seconds, meaning the whites will wait to a maximum of 30 seconds before
throwing an error.
Polling every has been set to 5 seconds, meaning the whites will check at a frequency of every 5 seconds
until the condition is met or the timer time has breached.
A third parameter ignoring has been set where the web driver will ignore this error if returned before
the timer.
Time is breached.
If the condition is not met by the time out time, then the element not visible exception is from an.
So an important thing to take note of this code is ignoring parameter.
So what this means is the taste or the whites will not throw a no such elements exception.
And the reason for that is site element loaded in 20 seconds.
Now this whites will first check at the 5/2 points and it probably won't find the elements.
So if this ignoring line was not there, it would have failed.
The test would have been no such elements exception.
But because we've place this line here, this white will ignore that terror.
So I can appreciate this can be quite confusing at first, but it should make sense when you see an
example.
So let's see.
A fluent white in action.
So the first thing I'm going to do is walk you through the test and I'm going to go to the automation
test and website.
And if I scroll down, you might notice that I've added a new page here.
And the reason for that is on the original Loder Page, those are familiar with HTML and CCS.
I used an overlay on that page which made it quite difficult to demonstrate the use of fluent ways.
So what I've decided was to create a new page called Loader two.
And on this page here, after 8 seconds, a new P elements is created in the DOM, which creates a new
paragraph like so.
And this paragraph here appears after the 8 seconds.
So if I inspect the page and refresh refresh his page, take a look at the document object model on
the right hand side and you'll see that P element is created.
Like so.
So in this test I am going to use this P element and I'm going to extract the text of that element.
After fruit, whites has waited for that element to appear on the page.
So I'm going to minimize this for now and open up the clips, and I'm simply going to copy and paste
the class in the last lecture, and I'm going to call this new class l0 file for lecture five, and
I'm going to give it a name of fluent lights and click, okay.
Now for double click that class, I'm simply going to remove the code from the last lecture.
We don't need up to the driver.
Don't get on.
So the first step I'm going to do is going to get the address of the loader to page.
I'm going to copy it and I'm going to simply paste it in the drivers.
They'll get method.
Like so.
So now I'm going to start writing the code that we need to use fluent white.
So I'm going to briefly explain it as I write the code.
So the first thing I need to do is use an interface called white, and inside some points in brackets
we define the type.
So this is going to be web driver like.
So next I need to define a object name and I'm going to call it fluent.
And it's going to equal new fluent whites.
And again, I'm going to define the type in 20 brackets, a Web driver, and then I'm going to open
and close brackets.
And inside that, I'm going to provide the driver instance.
So there is no semicolon at the end of this line.
And the reason for that is because we need to define some settings which I'm going to do on the next
line.
So before we continue, you can see that there's errors on the way to flow mines and if a hover over
it, I'm given the option to import it from selenium and the same flow might import flume right from
selenium.
Once I've done that, those errors go away.
So on this line, I'm going to write thoughts.
And I'm going to write with time out like so.
And this is the maximum time out time that the white the whites will wait until it error if it can't
find a the element we're looking for.
So inside the brackets I'm going to write duration dot.
Of seconds.
And then in these other brackets here, I'm going to set a value of ten, which stands for 10 seconds.
So this means the maximum timeout, 10 seconds for this white on the next line.
I mean, I'm again, going to write thoughts.
And I'm going to start typing polling every.
And again, I'm going to use duration lots of seconds and I'm going to set it to one.
So pole in every is the frequency or how often the white is going to check to see if the element itself.
And on the next line, I'm going to write Dots Ignoring.
And inside these brackets I'm going to write no such elements exception
dots class like so.
Now you'll see that this has got an error underneath it.
And if I hover over it.
I need to import the no such element exception, but make sure to select the selenium one and that error
should go away.
So at the end of this line, I need to add a semicolon.
And you should see that everything looks fine with no errors now.
So if the next part of code, I'm going to write web elements and I'm going to give this a name of para
for paragraph equals fluent.
So I'm using the fluent object dots until which is a method.
And in that method, I'm going to write.
So inside the brackets, I'm going to write a new
function.
I've taught Web driver.
And then a coma.
Web elements and outside that pointy bracket, I'm going to add another opening and closing bracket.
So at this point, here is my code.
So just before the last close in bracket, I'm going to add a price and I'm going to press enter to
creates a new line.
So before I continue if I hover over web element.
You'll see.
I'm given an option to import it from selenium.
And if I hover over function.
The one that we need to use here is the one from java dot util function.
So make sure to select the java util one for the function.
And when you do so, those errors now go away and we're left with this error which will go away once
we finish writing the code.
So the next thing that I'm going to write here is.
Public Web element.
And I'm going to use a ply.
And in those brackets here, I'm going through a Web driver driver, and then I'm going to at the end
of that line number, brace and enter.
And inside this line, I'm going to right return.
Driver thought fun elements fire CSF selector and this is what will provide the value.
And at the end of that line I need to simply add a semicolon.
And you'll see there's an error here as well.
And that's because we need to add a semicolon here to.
So in this in this instance, for these double quotes, we need to provide the selector for the paragraph.
So if I go back to the web page and simply using the select select at all, inspect that line and go
to run box philosophy.
I'm simply going to take that second selector, which is used in the idea of that paragraph, and it's
got an idea of the piers.
So if a copy that.
And play set like so.
So this is now got into fine element.
So what I want to do as part of this test is to output the text of that paragraph into console.
So outside this line here on the next line, I'm going to use system dots out, dots print out when
open and close in brackets and a semicolon at the end.
And inside these brackets I'm going to write para darts, get text like.
So you should see that there's no errors anywhere.
So I'm now going to save this class and try running it.
So I'm going to right click and run.
Let's see what happens.
So it's gone to the Web page and now the Flume White is check in every second until it finds that element.
And now that element has appeared.
If I go back to Eclipse, you'll see the text of that element has now been placed into the console.
So before we bring this lecture to a close, let's try something.
I'm going to change the maximum timeout so that we've time out from 10 seconds to five.
And if I save this class again and try running it, let's see what happens this time.
So it's gone to the loaded two page.
And we're going to wait until that paragraph displays.
And now if I go back to Eclipse.
You'll see that there's an error here.
And if I go up.
U.S. Unable to locate element.
So the reason for that is, well, I've changed that with time out from 10 seconds to five.
It's not sufficient time.
To whites for the element to display on the page because the element only appears after 8 seconds.
But the whites has EVERITT Because we've set a maximum timeout of 5 seconds.
So I hope this letter has been useful to you, and I can understand that this is quite a bit of code
to take in.
But the code that I've written here is pretty standard for any flu white that is used in Java.
And if you look at examples on the Internet, you'll see that usually they are written in a very similar
manner.
The key things I want you to take away from this lecture is that when we use of room lights, we need
to set the settings.
And when it goes and looks for an element, it does so using a polling frequency.
Another thing to note as well is that fluent wives are quite uncommon.
The most common type of white that I usually use is an explicit white.
But this lecture is just to demonstrate how we would use fluent whites if we ever needed to.
Thank you for watching.